TELCODOCS-643: Addition of workers to existing SNO cluster with ZTP (#50251)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-worker-node-preparing-policies.adoc

<3> This generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node.
<4> The `cpu.isolated` and `cpu.reserved` fields must be configured for each particular hardware platform.
<5> The `cmdline_crash` CPU set must match the `cpu.isolated` set in the `PerformanceProfile` section.

+
A generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node. You can generate the content of `crio` and `kubelet` configuration files.

. Add the created policy template to the Git repository monitored by the ArgoCD `policies` application.

. Add the policy in the `kustomization.yaml` file.

. Commit the changes in Git, and then push to the Git repository being monitored by the GitOps ZTP ArgoCD application.

[id="ztp-additional-worker-remediate-policies_{context}"]
== Remediating worker node policies

To remediate the new policies to your spoke cluster, create a new TALM custom resource:

[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: cnfdf15-worker-policies
  namespace: default
spec:
  backup: false
  clusters:
  - cnfdf15
  enable: true
  managedPolicies:

>   - cnfdf15-worker-config-policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - cnfdf15-workers-config-policy
  - cnfdf15-config-policy
```
OK, so I'm adding here the original cluster config policy, since we are modifying the existing sr-iov configurations, group-du-sno is already there (for modified ptp configuration).
We only add WLP and performance for the worker, as listed above. correct?

Reviewer 2: Based on other parts of the doc, I think the policies should be: 

managedPolicies
- example-sno-workers-config-policy  # for WLP, ptpconfig, and performanceprofile 
- example-sno-workers-sriov-config-policy  # for sriovnetworks, pollicies, etc. sriov cannot use the same policy because it has different wave number in ZTP source-cr than ptpconfigs and performanceprofile/tuned, etc.
- group-du-sno  # sriov/ptp operator configs modified in existing group PGT. We need to add this because after the modification, this policy is now NonCompliant, and need to be enforced via CGU.

Reviewer: Not sure why do we need example-sno-workers-sriov-config-policy.
Before worker addition we had 3 policies:
- example-sno-config-policiy - for sriov
- common-example-sno-subscriptions-policy - for subscriptions
- group-du-sno-config-policy - for ptp configs etc.

Now we add example-sno-workers-config-policy - for WLP and performance profile
PTP config and SR-IOV config we change to select worker instead of master without adding new policies. 
example-sno-config-policiy and group-du-sno-config-policy become non-compliant.  The example-sno-workers-config-policy is non-compliant since it is new. so managedPolices should contain
- example-sno-workers-config-policy
- group-du-sno-config-policy 
- example-sno-config-policiy

Correct?

Reviewer 2: I thought to avoid downtime, you were suggesting to add new policy using worker role to new worker config. 

I'm not sure about the underlying differences between modifying existing config policy from master to worker, vs adding new policy with worker using same config. Perhaps I misunderstood you - maybe you were comparing worker role vs a new role? If so, then let's just follow what you suggested above.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-5335 (4.11), Story TELCODOCS-643
// scalability_and_performance/ztp-deploying-disconnected.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-additional-worker-policies_{context}"]
= Using PolicyGenTemplate CRs to apply worker node policies to worker nodes
include::../_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

You can create policies for worker nodes.

.Procedure

. Create the following policy template:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1
kind: PolicyGenTemplate
metadata:
  name: "example-sno-workers"

>   namespace: "ztp-example-sno-policies"

Reviewer 3: `namespace: example-sno`

            files:
            - contents:
                source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,W2NyaW8ucnVudGltZS53b3JrbG9hZHMubWFuYWdlbWVudF0KYWN0aXZhdGlvbl9hbm5vdGF0aW9uID0gInRhcmdldC53b3JrbG9hZC5vcGVuc2hpZnQuaW8vbWFuYWdlbWVudCIKYW5ub3RhdGlvbl9wcmVmaXggPSAicmVzb3VyY2VzLndvcmtsb2FkLm9wZW5zaGlmdC5pbyIKcmVzb3VyY2VzID0geyAiY3B1c2hhcmVzIiA9IDAsICJjcHVzZXQiID0gIjAtMyIgfQo=
              mode: 420
              overwrite: true
              path: /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning
              user:
                name: root
            - contents:
                source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,ewogICJtYW5hZ2VtZW50IjogewogICAgImNwdXNldCI6ICIwLTMiCiAgfQp9Cg==
              mode: 420
              overwrite: true
              path: /etc/kubernetes/openshift-workload-pinning
              user:
                name: root
    - fileName: PerformanceProfile.yaml
      policyName: "config-policy"
      metadata:
        name: openshift-worker-node-performance-profile
      spec:
        cpu: <4>
          isolated: "4-47"
          reserved: "0-3"
        hugepages:
          defaultHugepagesSize: 1G
          pages:
            - size: 1G

>               count: 32

Reviewer 2: please add these lines: http://registry.kni-qe-0.lab.eng.rdu2.redhat.com:3000/kni-qe/ztp-site-configs/src/9f0321f4339bc56e8b299656c098aaca22a5300b/policygentemplates/ocp-edge88.yaml#L98-L99

<2> The `MCP` field must be set to `worker`.
<3> This generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node.
<4> The `cpu.isolated` and `cpu.reserved` fields must be configured for each particular hardware platform.
<5> The `cmdline_crash` CPU set must match the `cpu.isolated` set in the `PerformanceProfile` section.

+
A generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node. You can generate the content of `crio` and `kubelet` configuration files.

. Add the created policy template to the Git repository monitored by the ArgoCD `policies` application.

. Add the policy in the `kustomization.yaml` file.

. Commit the changes in Git, and then push to the Git repository being monitored by the GitOps ZTP ArgoCD application.

. To remediate the new policies to your spoke cluster, create a TALM custom resource:

[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: example-sno-worker-policies
  namespace: default
spec:
  backup: false
  clusters:
  - example-sno
  enable: true
  managedPolicies:
  - example-sno-workers-config-policy

>   - example-sno-config-policy

Reviewer 2: We did not document modifying existing ptp (in group pgt) and sriov (in sno pgt) configs, which is why this line is needed in CGU.  Need to add documentation modifying existing ptp and sriov configs.

Reviewer: We documented it in the [PTP and SR-IOV node selector compatibility](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/50251/files#diff-3bae2051f74457a2906a6e3c35a473dc44ebe2bc7fe15622b6984ae0106c59b9)
Line 9

Author: @yliu127 Isn't modifying existing configs documented [here](https://50251--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-sno-additional-worker-node.html#ztp-additional-worker-node-selector-comp_sno-additional-worker) and (with optional modification) [here](https://50251--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-sno-additional-worker-node.html#ztp-additional-worker-daemon-selector-comp_sno-additional-worker)?

Reviewer 2: @amolnar-rh  somehow your links just bring me to the top of the html doc. So not too sure which sections you are referring to. But as @vitus133  pointed out, there is indeed a sentence to briefly describe what needs to be done. So I'm okay with this.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-5335 (4.11), Story TELCODOCS-643
// scalability_and_performance/ztp-deploying-disconnected.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-additional-worker-policies_{context}"]

> = Applying worker node policies

Reviewer 3: I think this module could lose the the secondary headings (`==`) to make it more focused

```suggestion
= Using PolicyGenTemplate CRs to apply worker node policies to worker nodes
```

include::../_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

You can create policies for worker nodes.

[id="ztp-additional-worker-create-pgt_{context}"]

> == Creating a PolicyGenTemplate CR

Reviewer 3: Drop this and add prereqs section

          reserved: "0-3"
        hugepages:
          defaultHugepagesSize: 1G
          pages:
            - size: 1G
              count: 32
    - fileName: TunedPerformancePatch.yaml
      policyName: "config-policy"
      metadata:
        name: performance-patch-worker
      spec:
        profile:
          - name: performance-patch-worker
            data: |
              [main]
              summary=Configuration changes profile inherited from performance created tuned
              include=openshift-node-performance-openshift-worker-node-performance-profile
              [bootloader]
              cmdline_crash=nohz_full=4-47 <5>
              [sysctl]
              kernel.timer_migration=1
              [scheduler]
              group.ice-ptp=0:f:10:*:ice-ptp.*
              [service]
              service.stalld=start,enable
              service.chronyd=stop,disable
        recommend:
        - profile: performance-patch-worker
    - fileName: PtpOperatorConfig.yaml
      policyName: "config-policy"
      complianceType: mustonlyhave
      spec:
        daemonNodeSelector:
          node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
    - fileName: SriovOperatorConfig.yaml

>       policyName: "config-policy"

Reviewer 2: SRIOV needs to be in a different policy. e.g., sriov-config-policy

      complianceType: mustonlyhave
      spec:
        configDaemonNodeSelector:
          node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
----

> <1> The policies correspond to all clusters with this label.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> The policies are applied all clusters with this label.
```

              include=openshift-node-performance-openshift-worker-node-performance-profile
              [bootloader]
              cmdline_crash=nohz_full=4-47 <5>
              [sysctl]
              kernel.timer_migration=1
              [scheduler]
              group.ice-ptp=0:f:10:*:ice-ptp.*
              [service]
              service.stalld=start,enable
              service.chronyd=stop,disable
        recommend:
        - profile: performance-patch-worker
----
<1> The policies correspond to all clusters with this label.
<2> The `MCP` field must be set to `worker`.
<3> This generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node.
<4> The `cpu.isolated` and `cpu.reserved` fields must be configured for the specific hardware platform.
<5> The `cmdline_crash` CPU set must match the `cpu.isolated` set in the `PerformanceProfile` section.

+
A generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node. You can generate the content of `crio` and `kubelet` configuration files.

. Create the `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning` file:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ CPUSET="0-3" <1>

Reviewer: I think it should be OK as an example. I was doing this on a single socket system where all the 48 cores are siblings. For dual socket servers it will be different, but I think we don't provide any recommendation tied to a specific hardware. Maybe a note that emphasizes that this is just an example and the numbers must be carefully reviewed for each particular hardware model will be OK?

> $ CPUSET="0-3" <1>

Reviewer 2: A note sounds good.

----
<1>  Change these parameters for your requirements.

. Create the `/etc/kubernetes/openshift-workload-pinning` file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF | base64 -w 0
{
  "management": {
    "cpuset": "$CPUSET"
  }
}
EOF

ewogICJtYW5hZ2VtZW50IjogewogICAgImNwdXNldCI6ICIwLTMiCiAgfQp9Cg==
----

. Add the created policy template to the Git repository monitored by the ArgoCD `policies` application.

. Add the policy in the `kustomization.yaml` file.

. Commit the changes in Git, and then push to the Git repository being monitored by the GitOps ZTP ArgoCD application.

[id="ztp-additional-worker-remediate-policies_{context}"]
== Remediating worker node policies

To remediate the new policies to your spoke cluster, create a new TALM custom resource:

[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: cnfdf15-worker-policies
  namespace: default
spec:
  backup: false
  clusters:
  - cnfdf15
  enable: true
  managedPolicies:

>   - cnfdf15-worker-config-policy

Reviewer: We are not modifying existing policies to avoid downtime. Just adding new sriov and ptp policies for the worker node

>   - cnfdf15-worker-config-policy

Reviewer 2: Thats not what we documented in the rest of the sections in this doc though. We have been talking about modifying existing configs using existing node label ("worker"). Currently there is no easy way to add new node label via ZTP for dedicated worker.

e.g., In this doc, we talked about modifying ptp/sriov operator config to use mustonlyhave in existing group policy, and modifying ptp/sriov configs to use worker role in node selector. I think for operator config, we have to modify existing PGT to  be mustonlyhave, thus group policy should be added to CGU.
 
But for ptp/sriov configs, a new profile can probably be added in new worker config policy, but it needs to be using the existing worker role, which also applies to SNO node, so it needs to be exactly the same as the config already applied to master role. And previous doc needs to be updated to move all the ptp/sriov configs to here: https://50251--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-sno-additional-worker-node.html#ztp-additional-worker-create-pgt_sno-additional-worker.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-5335 (4.11), Story TELCODOCS-643
// scalability_and_performance/ztp-deploying-disconnected.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="ztp-additional-worker-policies"]

Reviewer 4: _{context}

      spec:
        profile:
          - name: performance-patch-worker
            data: |
              [main]
              summary=Configuration changes profile inherited from performance created tuned
              include=openshift-node-performance-openshift-node-performance-profile
              [bootloader]
              cmdline_crash=nohz_full=4-47 <5>
              [sysctl]
              kernel.timer_migration=1
              [scheduler]
              group.ice-ptp=0:f:10:*:ice-ptp.*
              [service]
              service.stalld=start,enable
              service.chronyd=stop,disable
----
<1> The policies will correspond to all clusters with this label.
<2> The `MCP` field must be set to `worker`.
<3> This generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node.
<4> The `cpu.isolated` and `cpu.reserved` fields must be configured for the specific hardware platform.
<5> The `cmdline_crash` CPU set must match the `cpu.isolated` set in the `PerformanceProfile` section.

. Modify the PTP configuration resources and SR-IOV network node policies to use the new label for selectors, for example:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> - fileName: PtpConfigSlave.yaml

Author: Can I change the instances of `slave` to `worker` in this yaml? It doesn't comply with out internal guidelines for conscious language use.

    - name: "slave"
      interface: "ens1f0" <1>
      ptp4lOpts: "-2 -s --summary_interval -4"
      phc2sysOpts: "-a -r -n 24"
    recommend:
    - match:
      - nodeLabel: node-role.ran.openshift.io=du
      priority: 4
      profile: slave-worker

---

- fileName: SriovNetworkNodePolicy.yaml
  policyName: "config-policy"
  complianceType: mustonlyhave
  metadata:
    name: "sriov-nnp-uplane"
  spec:
    deviceType: vfio-pci
    isRdma: false
    nicSelector:
      pfNames: ["ens1f1"]
    nodeSelector:
      node-role.ran.openshift.io: du
    numVfs: 8
    priority: 10
    resourceName: uplane
----
<1> This interface must match the hardware in this group

A generic `MachineConfig` CR is used to configure workload partitioning on the worker node. You can generate the content of `crio` and `kubelet` configuration files.

. Create the `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning` file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ CPUSET="0-3" <1>
$ cat <<EOF | base64 -w 0
[crio.runtime.workloads.management]
activation_annotation = "target.workload.openshift.io/management"
annotation_prefix = "resources.workload.openshift.io"
resources = { "cpushares" = 0, "cpuset" = "$CPUSET" }
EOF

> W2NyaW8ucnVudGltZS53b3JrbG9hZHMubWFuYWdlbWVudF0KYWN0aXZhdGlvbl9hbm5vdGF0aW9uID0gInRhcmdldC53b3JrbG9hZC5vcGVuc2hpZnQuaW8vbWFuYWdlbWVudCIKYW5ub3RhdGlvbl9wcmVmaXggPSAicmVzb3VyY2VzLndvcmtsb2FkLm9wZW5zaGlmdC5pbyIKcmVzb3VyY2VzID0geyAiY3B1c2hhcmVzIiA9IDAsICJjcHVzZXQiID0gIjAtMyIgfQo=

Reviewer: It's the output of the command just above that we put in our machineconfig
